# Predicting the Oscars
A project completed for and Informatics class at the University of Washington

In our research, we employed a series of progressively more complex regressions to test on our data. We started with simpler linear models to assist us in identifying the most influential variables. After which, we moved to more sophisticated neural networks in order to improve the accuracy of our predictions. All initial models output a binary classifier indicating if the given movie is a winner or not. 
Starting with a logistic regression, we were able to get an initial view into our feature set. However, since logistic regressions are linear, we were certain this would be the weakest performer. As such, this helped us determine a baseline for the performance of successive models. We found that of our 8 features. Before transforming the data, the number of IMDB Votes was the strongest indicator of a winner followed by the Rotten Tomatoes Average Critic and User Scores. After applying transformations to the skewed features - IMDB Votes, Tomatometer and Percent Audience Liked - IMDB Votes was still the most influential followed by Tomatometer then Rotten Tomatoes Average Critic Score. Our second iteration used a generalized additive model (GAM). GAM’s provided us with a way to observe some of the non-linearity of our dataset.  In the GAM we introduced budget and gross information as a Return on Investment ratio. It immediately supplanted IMDB Votes as the most influential factor. Finally, after we had gained a better understanding of our features we constructed a neural network using the Python framework Keras, a high-level implementation of TensorFlow which allows for rapid development and testing of arbitrarily complex network architectures. While using a neural net would obscure the importance of features, we hoped it would provide us with better predictions. Unfortunately we were not able to get any better of a prediction, but this could be for a number of reasons including a limited feature set, small dataset, and poor network design.
